README.md, before:

# mugpt

mugpt is a fork of [seqax by MatX](https://github.com/MatX-inc/seqax) modified to run on Google's TPU v4-32s and uses the hyperparameter transfer described by [Everett et al.](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2407.05872v2) Previously, I experimented with a modified form of attention "SharedKV" which resides in the [sharedkv branch](https://github.com/clankur/mugpt/tree/shared_kv) as well as mu-parameter transfer described by [Yang et al.](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2203.03466) For more information on these investigations, take a look here:

- [Benchmarking Learning Rate Transfer](./docs/exp_scaling.md)
- [Minimizing HBM usage through SharedKV](./docs/sharedkv.md)
- [Exploring the best approaches for implementing muP](./docs/mup.md)

The installation procedure is identical to that described in [seqax](https://github.com/MatX-inc/seqax).

## Getting started

### Installation

1. Install `graphviz` from your system package manager: e.g. `brew install graphviz` or `apt install graphviz`.
2. Install Python dependencies, typically inside a virtualenv: `python -m pip install -r requirements-cpu.txt`.

   NOTE: the `requirements-cpu.txt` is configured for CPU-based installation. For GPU or TPU installation, you may need a different install of JAX and jaxlib. Consult the [JAX install documentation](https://jax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html). If your GPU environment has a Torch-GPU installation, you may need to switch it to a Torch-CPU installation to avoid conflicts with JAX-GPU.

### Run on CPU for local development

For development and testing you can run on CPU. Typically you'd use our synthetic dataset (which is [checked into this repository](/synthetic_dataset.zarr)) or the [Huggingface data loader](#data-loaders) and you'd set XLA flags to simulate multiple devices so as to test that parallelism is working as intended:

```bash
XLA_FLAGS=--xla_force_host_platform_device_count=8 python -m train --config-name=local_test_synthetic +paths.model_name=synthetic_000
```

The `paths.model_name` flag specifies which subdirectory on disk (inside `/tmp`) to write model checkpoints to. You'll typically want to change this when starting a new model run.

## Acknowledgements

Thanks to the [MatX team](https://matx.com/) for their implementation of GPT in seqax which I used to implement muP and SharedKV attention.

Thanks to the [Google TPU Research Cloud](https://sites.research.google/trc/about/), which has supported my investigations.

Commit message:

Mixatt (#3)
* initial setup for ma, carry doesn't work

* change loop body to have any carry

* setup simple 8 layer mix att

* attempt to use ListConfig for per layer settings

* investigating in rewriting, scan doesn't support current setup for kvcache reuse

* setup but doesn't work with tensor parallelism, since kv_cache doesn't split n_kv

* use jnp arrays for kv_cache reuse

* cleanup

* cleanup

* setup synthetic 15m with mixed attention

* setup models for mixattention

* setup ma and adjust training to be more mfu efficient

* rename

* allow for non fully sharded weights

* clean up to use kv cache reuse map in configs

* update configs

* remove synthetic

* update README

README.md, after:

# mixatt

mixatt is a fork of [seqax by MatX](https://github.com/MatX-inc/seqax), adapted for Google's TPU v4-32s and implements MixAttention, as described by Databricks in their [blog post](https://www.databricks.com/blog/mixattention), enabling a reduced KVCache size during inference through sliding window attention and layer-shared KVCache.

The installation procedure is identical to that described in [seqax](https://github.com/MatX-inc/seqax).

## Getting started

### Installation

1. Install `graphviz` from your system package manager: e.g. `brew install graphviz` or `apt install graphviz`.
2. Install Python dependencies, typically inside a virtualenv: `python -m pip install -r requirements-cpu.txt`.

   NOTE: the `requirements-cpu.txt` is configured for CPU-based installation. For GPU or TPU installation, you may need a different install of JAX and jaxlib. Consult the [JAX install documentation](https://jax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html). If your GPU environment has a Torch-GPU installation, you may need to switch it to a Torch-CPU installation to avoid conflicts with JAX-GPU.

### Run on CPU for local development

For development and testing you can run on CPU. Typically you'd use our synthetic dataset (which is [checked into this repository](/synthetic_dataset.zarr)) or the [Huggingface data loader](#data-loaders) and you'd set XLA flags to simulate multiple devices so as to test that parallelism is working as intended:

```bash
XLA_FLAGS=--xla_force_host_platform_device_count=8 python -m train --config-name=local_test_synthetic +paths.model_name=synthetic_000
```

The `paths.model_name` flag specifies which subdirectory on disk (inside `/tmp`) to write model checkpoints to. You'll typically want to change this when starting a new model run.

## Acknowledgements

Thanks to the [MatX team](https://matx.com/) for their implementation of GPT in seqax which I used to implement muP and SharedKV attention.

Thanks to the [Google TPU Research Cloud](https://sites.research.google/trc/about/), which has supported my investigations.
